# Claim-Count-Forecasting
ABC insurance firm specializes in multiple products across the personal and commercial insurance spectrum. This company’s market share ranking is within the top 10, regardless of product offering, industry, or market. The goal of this project is to analyze and forecast ABC’s claim frequency for their domestic (USA) commercial property portfolio. 
Commercial property is a very difficult line to understand. It is generally characterized as a severity line, meaning infrequent claims throughout a given year but when claims happen they can be worth $1M-$30M per claim. Property claims also have extreme volatility due to catastrophic events like wildfires, hurricanes, tornados, etc… as well as less extreme weather events. Other than weather, Fire remains the largest single peril for ABC and the industry. Fire losses are typically by business practice like industry type or behavioral characteristics like management, employee training, or equipment/facility practices. Due to this volatility, predicting claim amounts is very difficult and requires different modeling techniques like capital tranching or excess load modeling. Understanding claim volumes is an important step within the actuarial process to generate a prospective opinion on reserve amounts for the line. 

### Data

Data set from ABC Insurance. The dataset represents 10+ years of commercial property claims. These claims represent all possible loss types, like fire, wind, water, hail, hurricanes, etc… and multiple industries. ABC Insurance has products for small commercial exposures like a coffee shop or a single bay mechanic shop all the way through to complex large commercial exposure like multi-state/internal operations or large single buildings. All of the data has been masked to protect the confidentiality nature of the information, including loss dollars. In the raw output the loss dollars have a formula applied to change the values but retain the patterns and relationships to each other. In the accompanying zip file, please review the files “Claim_Modeling_Data_Extract” and “Claim_Modeling_Data_Extract_Final”.

### Business Case

Review, analyze, and build a forecasting model(s) to predict a year’s worth of claim volume. This forecast will be used by the reserving actuaries in their quarterly reserve review process. Look for logical clusters or groupings to improve model predictions. Understand if there are trends in claims over time as well as seasonal patterns in the perils or industries. Last, determining how catastrophic events influence the claim forecasting methods.

_**Note: The SAS code, reports and back-end work is not shared here. Hence, you may find some file names in the report for which back-ups are not shared explicitly.**_
